## High Order Stratigraphic Framework of Intraslope Growth Faulted Subbasins Offshore Matagorda Bay, Texas



### ABSTRACT
Carbon capture and storage (CCS) is currently one of the leading atmospheric emission mitigation technologies. To have 
meaningful impact on the atmosphere CO2 concentrations, megatons (106) of CO2 must be removed from the carbon cycle 
permanently. This requires subsurface geologic storage sites that are both volumetrically significant and secure over 
geologic time-scales. The northern Gulf of Mexico (GOM) can serve as a major location for CCS. Miocene strandplain 
systems in the GOM are an ideal stratigraphy for such storage due to their proximity to emission sources, quality sand 
reservoirs, and depth relative to overpressure.

This study focuses on a suite of strike parallel subbasins within the Lower Miocene offshore of Matagorda Bay, TX. Each 
subbasin has potential to serve as a future carbon sequestration site. Accurate mapping of subbasins’ stratigraphy is 
necessary to understand the variable thickness and associated risk of reservoir-sealing shale intervals, recognizing 
that injection beneath thicker, more uniformly distributed shales is more favorable. These intervals must be mapped at 
high resolution (4th order cyclicity) to understand the individual components in assessment and risk analysis. 

This research generates a novel dip-steered seismic volume which is leveraged to improve seismic attribute calculations 
and mapping at the 4th order. The dip-steered seismic volume records the seismic dip in the inline and crossline 
direction of seismic features at the intersection of every inline, crossline, and seismic sample. This volume is used 
to generate a model of dense, 3D, auto-tracked horizons across each subbasin. The models better connect high 
resolution, but sparse, well log data and low resolution, but continuous, seismic data. Thickness distributions and 
shale interval maps generated from the models aid in risk assessment. Based on the resulting shale thicknesses, the 
suite of subbasins should be further considered as future storage sites.


### INTRODUCTION

The area of interest of this study is a suite of subbasins located offshore Matagorda Bay, Texas within the Lower 
Miocene 2 interval [Figure 1](####Figure-1). This interval consists of a siliciclastic wedge approximately 600 m thick which was 
deposited in a strandplain depositional environment between the North Padre Delta to the south and the Calcasieu Delta 
to the North (Galloway, 1989, Xu et al., 2016). The study area consists of five ‘subbasins’ (Figure 2). Each subbasin 
is bounded landward by a listric growth fault extending through the Miocene interval separating Miocene deposits from 
underlying Oligocene deposits. The subbasins are bounded basinward by another listric growth fault which in turn marks 
the landward edge of another more distal subbasin. Subbasins are bounded laterally by structural ridges that form 
perpendicular to strike. The formation of these subbasins is caused by interplay of Oligo-Miocene clastic deposition 
and halokenesis of allochthonous salt deposits. The sediment fill of each subbasin consists of interbedded sands and 
shales. The sand bodies have the potential to act as reservoirs for injected CO2 with the overlying shales acting as 
the top seal. Accurate mapping of the distribution of shale thicknesses at a high resolution (4th order) will improve 
assessing the risk associated with the top seal for a carbon injection site.

#### Figure 1
<img src="images/Figure_1.png?raw=true"/>

#### Figure 2

### METHODS

<img src="images/dummy_thumbnail.jpg?raw=true"/>

### RESULTS


### SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
